--- Page 1 ---
Uttarakhand
AYUSH Health and Wellness Centre -
Ayushman Bharat Yojana
AyurvedicAYUSHHealth And WellnessHomeopathyMedicinal PlantsUnaniYoga
Details
The “AYUSH Health and Wellness Centre - Ayushman Bharat Yojana” is
implemented by the Ayush Department, Government of Uttarakhand. The scheme
aims to provide accessible, affordable, and holistic healthcare services based on
Ayurveda, Yoga, Unani and Homeopathy systems to people of all age groups.

Benefits
A total of 300 AYUSH Health and Wellness Centres are operating in the state. At
these centres, medicines are distributed according to the specific disease, and yoga
and naturopathy treatments are provided as per the condition.
● Counselling based on nature testing and seasonal routines- screening and
diagnosis of non-communicable diseases such as diabetes, hypertension, oral
cancer, breast cancer, and cervical cancer, are conducted.
● Medicinal plants are also distributed.
● OPD charges have been fixed at ₹1.00 per person in rural areas and ₹2.00
per person in urban areas.

Eligibility
1. The beneficiary must be a resident of Uttarakhand.
2. The beneficiary may belong to any age group.
3. The beneficiary must be registered at a government-recognized Ayurvedic,
Unani, or Homeopathic dispensary or hospital.

Application Process
Offline
The beneficiary needs to register at a government-recognized Ayurvedic, Unani, or
Homeopathic dispensary or hospital.

Documents Required
1. Registration Proof at the Government Ayurvedic/Unani/Homeopathic
Dispensary or Hospital
2. Identity Proof
3. Any other document as required

Frequently Asked Questions

--- Page 2 ---
Who is eligible to benefit from this scheme?
What is the eligibility condition for registration?
How many AYUSH Health and Wellness Centres are operating in Uttarakhand?
What type of healthcare services are provided under this scheme?
What kind of diseases are screened or diagnosed at these centres?
Are counselling services available?
How can a person register under this scheme?