--- Page 1 ---
Ministry Of Housing & Urban Affairs
PM Street Vendor’s AtmaNirbhar Nidhi
(PM SVANidhi)
Affordable CreditDigital EmpowermentEnhanced LivelihoodStreet VendorsWorking
Capital Loan
Check Eligibility
Sign in to apply
Details
The scheme "PM Street Vendor’s AtmaNirbhar Nidhi (PM SVANidhi)" by the Ministry
of Housing and Urban Affairs, Government of India aims to formalize street vendors
and enhance their economic opportunities through providing collateral-free working
capital loans, interest subsidy, and digital transaction incentives to street vendors. It
was launched on 1st June 2020 as a central sector scheme. The scheme supports
vendors in restarting and expanding their businesses. It also promotes digital
payments to increase financial inclusion. Street vendors include hawkers, thelewala,
rehriwala, and others engaged in small-scale vending activities.
The scheme aims to formalize the street vendors and open up new opportunities for
this sector to move up the economic ladder. Street vendors represent a very
important constituent of the urban informal economy and play a significant role in
ensuring availability of the goods and services at affordable rates at the doorstep of
the city dwellers. They are known as vendors, hawkers, thelewala, rehriwala,
theliphadwala, etc. in different areas/ contexts. The goods supplied by them include
vegetables, fruits, ready-to-eat street food, tea, pakodas, bread, eggs, textile,
apparel, footwear, artisan products, books/ stationary, etc. The services include
barber shops, cobblers, pan shops, laundry services, etc.

Benefits
Working Capital Loan:
● 1st Tranche: Loan up to ₹15,000/-; repayment within 12 months.
● 2nd Tranche: Loan up to ₹25,000/-; repayment within 18 months.
● 3rd Tranche: Loan up to ₹50,000/-; repayment within 36 months.
● Next tranche available on timely or early repayment.
● No prepayment penalty on early repayment.
Interest Subsidy:
● Subsidy at 7% per annum on loan amount.
● Credited quarterly to beneficiary’s bank account.
● Applicable only for standard (non-NPA) accounts.
● Valid up to 31st March 2033.
Digital Transaction Cashback:
● Cashback up to ₹100/- per month for digital transactions.

--- Page 2 ---
Credit Guarantee Support:
● 31.87% guarantee cover for 1st tranche loan.
● 8.25% guarantee cover for 2nd tranche loan.
● 6% guarantee cover for 3rd tranche loan.
● No charges for lending institutions.
UPI Linked RuPay Credit Card:
● Initial credit limit of ₹10,000/-; extendable up to ₹30,000/-.
● Validity of 5 years.
● Available after successful repayment of 2nd tranche loan.

Eligibility
● Street vendors in possession of Certificate of Vending / Identity Card issued
by Urban Local Bodies (ULBs).
● The vendors, who have been identified in the survey but have not been issued
Certificate of Vending / Identity Card.
● Street Vendors left out of the ULB-led identification survey or who have
started vending after completion of the survey and have been issued a Letter
of Recommendation (LoR) to that effect by the ULB / Town Vending
Committee (TVC).
● The vendors of surrounding development/ peri-urban/rural areas vending in
the geographical limits of the ULBs, who have been issued a Letter of
Recommendation (LoR) to that effect by the ULB / TVC.

Application Process
Online
Offline
Step 1: Visit https://pmsvanidhi.mohua.gov.in/ and click on the "Log In" button on the
homepage.
Step 2: Enter Mobile number and captcha. Click request OTP.
Step 3: After successful login, select valid "vendor category" among the available
options. Enter "Survey Reference Number" (SRN) which is mandatory.
Step 4: On entering these basic details, fill the application form online, upload the
relevant documents and submit.
Note:
● For any kind of clarification and access detailed stepwise process, refer User
Manual.
● For any query one can call on the toll free number i.e 1800111979 between
9.30 AM to 6.00 PM on Monday to Saturday except national holidays.
● Contact Details: Click here.

Apply Now
Documents Required
For 1st Loan :

--- Page 3 ---
For Category A and B vendors:
1. Certificate of Vending
2. Identity Card
For Category C and D vendors:
1. Letter of Recommendation
KYC documents required in addition to CoV/ID/LoR :
1. Aadhaar Card
2. Voter Identity Card
3. Driving License
4. MNREGA Card
5. PAN Card
For Letter of Recommendation :
1. Copy of Account Statement/Passbook
2. Copy of Membership Card/any other proof of membership
3. Any other document to substantiate the claim as a vendor
4. Request letter to ULB
For Second Loan
1. Loan Closure Document

Frequently Asked Questions
What is PM SVANidhi Scheme?
Who is eligible to apply for the PM SVANidhi Scheme?
What is the age limit to apply for the PM SVANidhi Scheme?
What is the maximum loan amount that can be availed under this scheme?
What is the interest rate on the loan provided under this scheme?
How can one apply for the PM SVANidhi Scheme?
Is there any processing fee to apply for the PM SVANidhi Scheme?
What documents are required to apply for the PM SVANidhi Scheme?
Can an individual apply for the PM SVANidhi Scheme multiple times?
Can an individual apply for the scheme if they have availed of a loan under any
other government scheme?
What is the repayment period for the loan provided under this scheme?
Is collateral required to avail of the loan under this scheme?
Can the loan amount be used for any purpose related to the street vending
business?
What is the benefit of availing of the loan under this scheme?
What is the repayment mode for the loan provided under this scheme?