--- Page 1 ---
Ministry Of Petroleum and Natural Gas
Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana 2.0
Cooking FuelHouseholdLPGWomen
Check Eligibility
Details
The Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana 2.0 (PMUY) was launched in May 2016 by the
Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas to provide free LPG connections to women
from poor households. Its main objective is to promote clean cooking fuel like LPG
among rural and deprived families who traditionally rely on firewood, coal, or
cow-dung cakes. This shift helps reduce health risks for women and minimizes
environmental pollution. Under PMUY 2.0, the scheme was further expanded to
reach more beneficiaries across India.
● The target under the scheme was to release 8 Crore LPG Connections to the
deprived households by March 2020.
● On 7th September 2019, the Hon’ble Prime Minister of India handed over the
8th Crore LPG connection in Aurangabad, Maharashtra.
● The release of 8 Crore LPG connections under the scheme has also helped in
increasing the LPG coverage from 62% on 1st May 2016 to 99.8% on 1st
April 2021.
● Ujjwala 2.0: Additional allocation of 1.6 Crore LPG Connections under PMUY
Scheme with special facility to migrant households. The scheme was
launched in Mahoba, Uttar Pradesh by the Hon’ble Prime Minister of India,
Shri. Narendra Modi.

Benefits
Cash assistance for PMUY connections is provided by the Government of India -
₹1600 (for a connection 14.2kg cylinder/ ₹1150 for a 5 kg cylinder). The cash
assistance covers:
1. Security Deposit of Cylinder – ₹1250 for 14.2 kg cylinder/ ₹ 800 for 5 kg
cylinder.
2. Pressure Regulator – ₹150.
3. LPG Hose – ₹100.
4. Domestic Gas Consumer Card – ₹25.
5. Inspection/ Installation/ Demonstration charges – ₹75.
Additionally, All PMUY beneficiaries will be provided with first LPG refill and Stove
(hotplate) both free of cost along with their deposit-free connection by the Oil
Marketing Companies (OMCs).

Eligibility
1. The applicant must be at least 18 years old.

--- Page 2 ---
2. The applicant’s household must not have any existing LPG connection.
3. The applicant woman must belong to any one of the eligible categories.
● SC Households
● ST Households
● Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (Gramin)
● Most Backward Classes
● Antyodaya Anna Yojana (AAY)
● Tea and Ex-Tea Garden tribes
● Forest Dwellers
● People residing on Islands and River Islands
● SECC Households (AHL TIN)
● Poor Household as per 14-point declaration

Application Process
Online
Step 1: Apply online for Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana 2.0 from the official website.
Step 2: Select the option Apply for the New Ujjwala 2.0 Connection.
Step 3: Scroll down to and click on Online Portal. and Select the LPG distribution
company name example Indane / Bharatgas / HP Gas.
Step 4: Click on Register Now on the selected LPG distribution company.
Step 5: Select a type of Connection like Ujjwala 2.0 New Connection.
Step 6: Choose the State, District, Pin Code, and Name of the  Distributor. Then
Enter your Mobile Number, Captcha, and OTP.
Step 7: Select the type of KYC New KYC and Normal KYC.
Step 8: Select Migrant Family status in YES or NO
Step 9: For the family Identifier in NO fill in Annexure 1
Step 10: For  family Identifier in Yes fill in Ration Card
Step 11: Fill in all Family Details, Personal details, address details, bank details,
Choose Cylinder Types, Select rural or urban and select the declaration and submit.
Step 12: Generate the Reference number and Print your applied form attach all the
documents you submitted online and visit the selected Gas agency.
Offline
Step 1: You can download Forms from the official website (given below) or get them
from the nearest LPG distributor.
● KYC Form
● Supplementary KYC Document & Undertaking
● ANNEXURE - I Self-declaration for Family Composition and Address for
release  of new connection under PMUY (for Migrant only)
● ANNEXURE - II Mechanics Pre-Installation check of Customers Premises for
LPG connection

--- Page 3 ---
Step 2: Fill out the application form with the required information, including personal
details, bank account information, and LPG distributor preference.
Step 3: Attach the necessary documents along with the application form. The
documents typically include proof of identity, proof of address, and proof of BPL
category.
Step 4: Submit the completed application form along with the supporting documents
to the nearest LPG distributor

Documents Required
1. Know Your Customer(KYC)
2. Ration Card issued by the State from which application is being made/ other
State Govt. document certifying family composition/ Self-Declaration as per
Annexure I (for migrant applicants)
3. Aadhaar of the beneficiary and adult family members appearing in the
document at Sl. 2
4. Proof of Address - Aadhaar will be taken as Proof of Identity and Proof of
Address if the connection is required in the same address. In that case, only
Aadhaar is sufficient.
5. Bank Account Number and IFSC
Frequently Asked Questions
Who is the eligible beneficiary under ujjwala 2.0?
Which Documents are mandatory to be submitted by applicant for enrolment
under ujjwala 2.0?
If customer possess aadhaar card and connection to be released in the same
address as mentioned in aadhaar card, can it be used as the POI and POA
document?
What doccument can be produced as proof of Identity (pOI) and Proof of
address( POA)?
How can one apply for LPG connection under Ujjwala 2.0?
What are the mandatory documents to be uploaded by the distributor for
submission of KYC under ujjwala 2.0?
If the applicant is unable to submit aadhaar card of any adult family member
whose name is appearing in ration card or equivalent document issued by
state department, will she be enrolled under ujjwala 2.0?
What is the criterion to ascertain a poor household under ujjwala 2.0?
What type of ration card needd to be submitted by applicant?
Whether a connection can be given to a female who is claiming to be single
member in the household or other members of the family who are minors?

--- Page 4 ---
PMUY connection can be released to poor household with no female adult
member?
Is aadhaar Authentication (E-KYC) is mandatory for connections enrolled
under ujjwala 2.0? if so, how it is carried out?